So we're now going to talk
about arbitrary-arity methods.
And arbitrary-arity
methods are used
to process an array of
completable futures in bulk,
and there can be an arbitrary
number of them in the array.
These methods
return a future that
are triggered after
the completion
of any or all futures.
And if you take a look,
you can see that there's
one method here called allOf.
And that, obviously,
is going to trigger
when all the completable futures
passed as a parameter complete.
And then there's
also anyOf, which
will trigger after any of the
parameters passed to the anyOf
method complete.
So pretty straightforward.
And again, arity just
means number of parameters.
So arbitrary-arity means you can
have a variable number of them.
The future that's returned
from anyOf or allOf
can be used to
wait for any or all
of the incompletable futures in
the varargs array to complete.
Now, notice, this
wait doesn't usually
mean blocking, although
you could block on join.
But instead, it typically
uses completion stage methods,
or a completion
stage method that
will be triggered when all the
other operations, or the first
of those operations,
will complete--
depending, of course, whether
you're using allOf or anyOf.
We're going to focus on allOf
here, which is basically
like thenCombine on steroids,
because you can wait for more
than just two previous stages.
It turns out, that these
arbitrary-arity methods
are very hard to program without
using some type of wrapper.
And so what we're
going to do next
is show a simple
wrapper that illustrates
how to use them in a
much more convenient way
in the context of Java streams.